Initial contents for BinaryFormatter security guide (#19442)
dotnet/docs: docs/standard/serialization/binaryformatter-security-guide.md

---
title: "BinaryFormatter security guide"
description: This article describes the security risks inherent in the BinaryFormatter type and recommendations for different serializers to use.
ms.date: "07/11/2020"
helpviewer_keywords: 
ms.assetid: 00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000
author: "GrabYourPitchforks"
---
# BinaryFormatter security guide

This document applies to the following framework versions:

* .NET Framework (all versions)
* .NET Core 2.1 - 3.1
* .NET 5.0+

## Background

> > __Summary__: The `BinaryFormatter` type is dangerous and is not recommended for data processing. Applications should stop using it at their earliest opportunity, even if they believe the data they're processing to be trustworthy.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> __Summary__: The <xref:System.Runtime.Serialization.Formatters.Binary.BinaryFormatter> type is dangerous and is not recommended for data processing. Applications should stop using it at their earliest opportunity, even if they believe the data they're processing to be trustworthy.
```

Reviewer: > Applications should stop using it at their earliest opportunity, even if they believe the data they're processing to be trustworthy.

As a normal reader, this is confusing for me, why would a trusted source be a problem?
If this is meant that I *may* think it's trusted while it's not, I'd indicate that clearly.

> > This document also applies to the `SoapFormatter`, `NetDataContractSerializer`, `LosFormatter`, and `ObjectStateFormatter` types.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> This document also applies to the <xref:System.Runtime.Serialization.Formatters.Soap.SoapFormatter>, <xref:System.Runtime.Serialization.NetDataContractSerializer>, <xref:System.Web.UI.LosFormatter>, and <xref:System.Web.UI.ObjectStateFormatter> types.
```

As a simpler analogy, assume that calling `BinaryFormatter.Deserialize` over a payload is the equivalent of interpreting that payload as a standalone executable and launching it.

## BinaryFormatter security guarantees

> The `BinaryFormatter.Deserialize` method is __never__ safe when used with untrusted input. We strongly recommend that consumers instead consider using one of the alternatives outlined later in this document.

The implementation of `BinaryFormatter` was originally created before serialization vulnerabilities were a well-understood threat category. As a result, the code does not follow modern best practices. The `Deserialize` method can be used as a vector for attackers to perform DoS attacks against consuming applications. These attacks might render the application unresponsive or could even result in unexpected process termination. This category of attack cannot be mitigated with a `SerializationBinder` or any other `BinaryFormatter` configuration switch. .NET considers this behavior _by design_ and will not issue a code update to modify the behavior.

> `BinaryFormatter.Deserialize` may be vulnerable to other attack categories, such as information disclosure or remote code execution. Utilizing features such as a custom [serialization binder](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/api/system.runtime.serialization.serializationbinder) may be insufficient to properly mitigate these risks. The possibility exists that a novel vulnerability will be discovered for which .NET cannot practically publish a security update. Consumers should assess their individual scenarios and consider their potential exposure to these risks.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`BinaryFormatter.Deserialize` may be vulnerable to other attack categories, such as information disclosure or remote code execution. Utilizing features such as a custom <xref:System.Runtime.Serialization.SerializationBinder> may be insufficient to properly mitigate these risks. The possibility exists that a novel vulnerability will be discovered for which .NET cannot practically publish a security update. Consumers should assess their individual scenarios and consider their potential exposure to these risks.
```

We recommend that `BinaryFormatter` consumers perform individual risk assessments on their applications. It is the consumer's sole responsibility to determine for itself whether to utilize this API. Consumers should assess any security, technical, reputational, and legal risks (including regulatory requirements) that may accompany using `BinaryFormatter` within their applications.

## Preferred alternatives

.NET offers several in-box serializers which can handle untrusted data safely.

> The in-box types [`XmlSerializer`](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/api/system.xml.serialization.xmlserializer) and [`DataContractSerializer`](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/api/system.runtime.serialization.datacontractserializer) (not to be confused with `NetDataContractSerializer`) can be used to serialize object graphs into and from XML safely.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The in-box types <xref:System.Xml.Serialization.XmlSerializer) and <xref:System.Runtime.Serialization.DataContractSerializer> (not to be confused with `NetDataContractSerializer`) can be used to serialize object graphs into and from XML safely.
```

> The [_System.Text.Json_](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/api/system.text.json) APIs can be used to serialize object graphs into JSON safely.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The <xref:System.Text.Json> APIs can be used to serialize object graphs into JSON safely.
```
